Spores contained in uncooked
or poorly cooked meat from an animal
infected with anthrax,
are swallowed and carried into the stomach
and intestines.
There the spores attatch to the
small folds and wrinkles
of the stomach lining.
A type of white blood cell,
a macrophage, one of the bodies protection units,
engulfs the intruding spore.
The anthrax spore
germinates inside the macrophage.
The rod-shaped bacillis
emerges from the spore
with a capsule that protects it from being eaten.
The bacilli multiply rapidly
within the macrophage,
and produce two kinds of toxins;
called lethal factor and edema factor.
Finally, overwhelmed by the number of basili within it,
the macrophage bursts,
releasing the anthrax bacilli and its toxins.
They spread from the stomach
into either the abdominal mesentery,
or the lymph nodes.
Then to the heart
and into the circulatory system.
There may be an ulcer at the site of
former entry with infection
and destruction of the draining lymph glands.